
# Forget efficiency, you should learn your text editor because it's fun

Some people suggest that you should learn a powerful text editor like Vim,
Emacs or, say, Sublime in proper depth, because it will increase your
productivity. It sure sounds like a good reason and I'm all for increased
productivity. But if you actually start summing up your productivity increases
and deducting the time it took you to get there, it quickly gets quite messy.

Sure, you might be able to give a nice back-of-the-envelope calculation that
proves that if you save your work a hundred thousand times in a decade and you
shave off a keystroke of that, then you'll save given number of hours of time.
But in real life, the actual calculcation quickly becomes impossible. (Of
course you should avoid obvious inefficiencies.)

But I don't think it matters. I think the reason you should start learning
your text editor more thoroughly is simply because it's fun. It is fun to
learn, it is fun become more proficient, it is fun to *be* good at something,
and it is even more fun to spread your proficiency to others. And furthermore
perhaps, it is fun to be able to control your environment. You can use the
hand-wavy arguments of becoming more productive as an excuse to learn your
text editor. And if you do, in fact, become faster and more efficient, all the
better.

## Hello, my name is Jarno and I'm a Vim convert. (But don't worry, I won't try to convert you.)

I used to be a half-decent Emacs user and now I'm a half-decent Vim user. I
can't remember the exact date when I made the dramatic shift, but it was about
a year ago because that's when I made the first commit to my `.vimrc`. One of
the reasons for switching to Vim was that being too complacent with my
mediocre Emacs skills and I hoped that such radical switch would force me to
learn new, better habits.

I can't claim to be a Vim wizard yet, but I've certainly been on a interesting
journey to learn a totally different editor. I was highly skeptical of Vim's
basic philosophy of modality, but I eventually got used to the Vim style of
editing and now I really like it. But I'm NOT going to say that every
programmer should start using Vim. I'm saying every programmer should learn an
editor that is powerful enough. I know both Emacs and Vim fit the bill, but
I'm sure Sublime and many other modern text editors are fine choices as well.

I think the editor of your choice has to have multitude of ways to edit text.
It should have a convenient way to extend its functionality. And I think you
should be able to customize it.

## Learning is fun! No, it really is.

I'll save you the trouble of googling for Vim's learning curve by providing
the ever so popular image below:

![Alt text](http://mrozekma.com/editor-learning-curve.png "Vim learning curve")

There's some truth to the graph, but I agree with some of the Vim proponents
that it doesn't take too long to learn enough Vim to be able to actually edit
files. (Other editors might give a more pleasant initial experience.) But once
you get over the initial hurdle, the possibilities of your learning ground are
exciting.


